# Usability Test
## DH 150 - Justis Guardia


### Introduction

After evaluating the heuristics of this website, [The Salty Marshmallow](https://thesaltymarshmallow.com/), there were a significant amount of flaws in regard to usability. The website is supposed to be useful for users finding recipes, searching the site for specific ingredients, and finding information on cooking in general. The website is designed to help readers as they potentially do not have to look at other sites for recipes or inspiration, as ideally The Salty Marshmallow would have all of the information needed. 

Some of the site's problems hinders its ease and flexibility, and this usability test will allow a greater understanding of these problems from a user's point of view. One of the most significant flaws I have found was within the search bar. When a word was misspelled, the site would be unable to recommend anything similarly spelled. The search bar would also frequently bring up irrelevant results. Another flaw is the site's lack of organization, minimalism, and continuity. Without good design within these categories, the user has a harder time navigating and understanding teh site as a beginner and a more experienced user. Being able to use the site quickly and easily is very important, as it is integral to the usefulness of it as a recipe blog, so being able to see these problems from a new perspective will greatly help to improve its usability.

Because of these issues, I will be conducting a usability test to understand the extent to which these problems affect a new user's ability to understand, navigate, and use the site as it is meant to be used. The first task will ask the user to find a fruit dessert recipe and then find another recipe with the same fruit. This will require them to browse the tabs of the site and then return and browse with a specific ingredient in mind or use the serach bar. Here I will be usign this simple task to see how well they are able to start to use the site without any knowledge. The second task will ask the user to look for a baked chicken recipe, soemthing that is very standard and simple, further testing the organization and searching on this site. The last task will ask the user to compare recipes for mashed potatoes by reviews, requiring a look at multiple recipes and analysis of the entire recipe page. In asking the user to complete these tasks, I hope to find information on how the site could be improved through the problems encountered. I hope to understand the present issues from a user's viewpoint and position.

### Methodology
This pilot usability test will be conducted in a quiet room in which the moderator and participant will sit next to each other. A laptop will be recording the particpant's reactions throughout the test and will also contain the site and the survey for the participant to use. The screen of the laptop will also be recorded. This test is a trial and meant to also test the location, set-up, and software as well.

First, the moderator will provide background information about the test to the participant through an introduction. Then the participant will be able to give informed consent and begin to fill out a pre-test questionnaire on whether they have used this site or similar sites in the past. The test consists of three tasks in which the user will be asked to navigate the site as they normally would, while speaking aloud about their thought process. After the tasks are complete, the participant will answer post-test questions about their experience on the website. This will allow for information on how easy it was to understand and use, how flexible the site was, aesthetics, and organization, along with any other problems they encountered during the test. The survey wil conclude with a demographic questionnaire, which will remain confidential and anonymous.

### Survey
Here is a link to the moderator script and participant survey. [Click Here](https://forms.gle/gcBazmPsnLWPua7A8)

### Video
Here is a link to the usability test video and screen recording. [Click Here](https://youtu.be/LYzyrRDaORg)

### Reflection
Through this usability test, I learned a lot about the process of testing websites, along with a significant amount of information on what is useful and what is not on The Salty Marshmallow and recipe websites at large.

The participant helped illuminate a lot of problems I had noticed during my initial heuristic evaluation of the site, and also helped bring attention to different difficulties that I had not noticed originally. For example, watching the participant view the recipe page and notice the useful tips in the beginning, but have trouble finding the exact recipe made it clear to me that organization within the individual recipe pages was an issue as well. As a moderator, I found it difficult to not interject with information or lead the participant because I have experience with the site that would help them navigate more quickly, however the best information received from this test was with no leading from me as the moderator. Being able to observe the participant and listen to their thought processes was extremely useful in understanding the usability of the site. 

Overall, I believe the test went very well and was extremely helpful. The participant did a very good job of speaking aloud and navigating the site as they normally would. I also appreciated the explanations of the participant's personal experiences on similar sites and their reasoning for the survey questions was very well thought out and helpful. Only a few technical issues occured, specifically within the test survey. Some of the questions required a selection of multiple options, but the survey would only allow for one option to be selected. Luckily, the video was recording and captured the participant's point of view and selections for those questions. In the future, I would double check the survey for functionality before testing a participant. Currently, the survey is fixed and will allow for multiple selections on future usability tests. 
